Ramesh K
Mobile: +91-9916725955
Email:	ramesshk.devops@gmail.com 
Devops Engineer
Job Objective

Devops engineer with Linux system admin experience of 4.6 years . Working on 
Jenkins, Docker, Ansible, Ant , Maven, GIT, GitHub, bash Shell Scripting,LINUX.
Professional Experience

Worked as Devops Engineer in Call2Action Communications  at Bangalore.  From July 2016 to August2018.
Worked as System Admin in Balaji Developers at pune  Jan2014 to July 2016

Experience Summary

	I have 4+ years IT Experience in DevOps Engineer and Linux System Adminstrator Positions.
	Extensively worked on Jenkins for continuous integration and for End to End automation deployments.
	Hands on experience in version control tool like GIT.
	Used Ansible as Infrastructure as a Code for automating the server management(installation pf packages/service etc).
	Developed Ansible Playbooks files to deploy automated tasks to many servers at once such as installing Packages, start and stop the services and remove the packages
	Good knowledge in creating packages like WAR, EAR, JAR using MAVEN build tool.
	Hands on experience in setting up and configuring JENKINS Tool.
	Hands on experience in automating build process using JENKINS Tool
	created Jenkins job in DEV environment to test and automate the entire application build and delivery process (Tomcat Server).
	As part of CI, Jenkins integrated required pom.xml/build.xml/build scripts file to generate the required artifacts after build.
	Build integration was done by including the service hook to trigger Jenkins on every commit to GitHub repository.
	Deploying the WAR files in Tomcat Server
	Worked on installation of Docker , creation of custom Docker  images, tagging and pushing the images. 
	Worked on creating the Docker containers  and linking Docker containers.
	Setup/Managing Linux Servers on AWS ( EC2, EBS, ELB,  Security Groups and IAM).
	Worked on Unix shell scripting.
	Installation of NFS, SAMBA, FTP , Apache WebServer ,apache tomcat
	Incidents handled : user addition,editing the sudoers file,LV extension ,pv and vg creation and extension ,lv creation ,creation of new filesystems , file permissions and ownerships ,scanning of newly added disks and luns , performance monitoring , hardening of newly built servers , ACL permissions , nfs servers ,shares and clients.


Technical Skills
Version Control			                :	GIT
Build Tools			                               :	Maven
Continuous Integration Tools	                 : 	Jenkins
Application server		                                :	ApacheTomcat
Code analysis tools	                                      	  :	SonarQube
Operating Systems		                                :	Centos, LINUX (Red Hat)
Scripting Languages		                                :	Shell Scripting, python scripting
Container tools		  	                 :	Docker
Cloud Environment		                                :	AWS
Configuration tools		                                : 	Ansible
Education	

	Graduation B.Tech from JNTUA University in 2013.
Project Summary
Project 2
Project	              :  RMCONNECT
Client		               :  YESBANK
Duration	               :  Jan 2017 to Aug2018.
Team Size	               :  3
Environment           	:  GIT, Maven, Shell script, Jenkins, Docker, Linux,AWS.
Role		               :  DevOps Engineer. 

Roles & Responsibilities:

	Major responsibilities include design, ownership, and drive the DevOps process strategy and implementation and develop DevOps methodology and culture by setting up an environment with CI/CD and continuous monitoring.
	Responsible for Design of different Release Environments for new projects.
	Setup/Managing Linux Servers on Amazon ( EC2, EBS, ELB,  Security Groups and IAM).
	Implementing a Continuous Delivery framework using Jenkins and Maven.
	Setup Jenkins for continuous integration Build process.
	Troubleshoot Build issues and coordinate with development team on resolving build issues.
	Troubleshoot Application deployment issues by log verification.
	Worked on building and configuration management, SCM strategies like branching, merging, and provided training to develop teams in  GIT and Branching strategies.
	Automated Weekly releases with ANT/Maven scripting for Compiling Java Code, Debugging and Placing Builds into Nexus Repository.
	Basic Knowledge on (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tool ansible.
	Involved Deploy the Jar, War, Ear files in Apache Webserver Creating build environment like installing all the required software.
	Worked on installation of Docker , creation of custom Docker  images, tagging and pushing the images. 



Project 1
Project		:  Voice Notification
Client		:  NirmalBang
Duration	:  July 2016 to Aug 2018
Team Size	:  5
Environment	:  Jenkins, Shell script, Linux

Roles & Responsibilities:
	Setup/Managing Linux Servers on Amazon ( EC2, EBS, ELB,  Security Groups and IAM)..
	Incidents handled : user addition,editing the sudoers file,LV extension ,pv and vg creation and extension ,lv creation ,creation of new filesystems , file permissions and ownerships ,scanning of newly added disks and luns , performance monitoring , hardening of newly built servers , ACL permissions,nfs servers ,shares and clients.
	Used Maven for building the artifacts and also administered the Maven Build scripts.
	In Branching, Tagging of code delivery at required releases. Installing and configuring Git , Jenkins deployment servers.
	Knowledge of developing the build management scripts and framework.
	Involved in scheduling the automated build called Nightly Builds and Managing Daily Builds, Weekly Builds, Nightly Builds.
	working proficiency in UNIX commands and VI editor
	Users, File Permissions, ACL, Services & Process administration
	File system, SWAP configurations
	Worked on LVM, Software RAID Disk management . 
	Installation of NFS, SAMBA, FTP , Apache,apache tomcat
	Networking, iptables, ssh, TCP Wrappers
	Job scheduling in crontab
	Installation and configuration of  Nagios and NRPE.
	Using NRPE we can  add  Instances/servers for Monitoring services like (httpd,nfs,disk space,sshd)
	Working on ftp tool, cron and at job schedule tools, managing log files, daily management activities.
